1. In CSS, the box model is used when talking about design and layout. The CSS box model is essentially a box that wraps around every HTML element. It consists of: margins, borders, padding, and the actual content.
2. -Beter website speed. (2) Easier to maintain. (3) Consistent design. (4) Time-Saving. (5) Better device compatibility. (6) Flexible positioning of elements.
3. -CSS cannot perform any logical operations like if/else or for/while or +/-. (2) We can not read any files using CSS.(3) It can not interact with databases.(4) CSS can not request a web page.
4. Inline - by using the style attribute inside HTML elements.(2) Internal - by using a <style> element in the <head> section.(3) External - by using a <link> element to link to an external CSS file.
5. The CSS element Selector, The CSS id Selector, The CSS class Selector, The CSS Universal Selector, The CSS Grouping Selector
6. A CSS preprocessor is a program that lets you generate CSS from the preprocessor's own unique syntax. (2) LESS (which stands for Leaner Style Sheets) is a backward-compatible language extension for CSS. LESS follows a declarative styling pattern by nature. This implies that you specify what you want to see not how you want it to be done. This is mostly as a result of its similarities to functional programming which mostly makes it more readable and easier to understand.SASS, which stands for Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets, was created by Hampton Catlin. It is equally designed to be compatible with all versions of CSS. It follows an imperative styling pattern which implies that you get to specify how things get done.SASS, which stands for Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets, was created by Hampton Catlin. It is equally designed to be compatible with all versions of CSS. It follows an imperative styling pattern which implies that you get to specify how things get done.
Stylus offers a bit more expressiveness while maintaining a much more concise syntax. People with Python backgrounds will very much resonate with its non-curly braced syntax of indentation. However, this is a purely optional feature and one could still stick to the regular CSS syntax.
It shares striking similarities with LESS, but it has an imperative syntax like SASS... theyre good tools for front-end developers who would love to enhance their page styling through variables, mixins, mathematical functions, operational functions, nested syntax, and style-sheet modularization. They make it easy to automate repetitive styling, reduce errors and write reusable code while ensuring backward compatibility with various CSS versions.
7. vh stands for viewport height and vw is for viewport width. Hence, setting an element to a width value of 50vw means that the element will have a width that’s 50% of the viewport size, and this stays true when the viewport is resized. likewise for vh.
8. CSS resets aim to remove all built-in browser styling. Standard elements like H1-6, p, strong, em, et cetera end up looking exactly alike, having no decoration at all. You're then supposed to add all decoration yourself. Normalize CSS aims to make built-in browser styling consistent across browsers. Elements like H1-6 will appear bold, larger et cetera in a consistent way across browsers. You're then supposed to add only the difference in decoration your design needs.
9. Inline: Displays an element as an inline element. Any height and width properties will have no effect. inline-block: Displays an element as an inline-level block container. You CAN set height and width values. Block:  starts on a NEW line and takes up the full width available.
10.Yes it is. Website testing from multiple browsers can help make sure your company makes a good impression on potential customers and existing customers. Automated testing of your website can help you make sure your website always works correctly, responds quickly, and displays correctly.
11. A CSS pseudo-element is used to style specified parts of an element. A pseudo-class is used to define a special state of an element.
12.Centimetres, pixels, points, inches, picas, millimetres
13.Top and bottom margins do not affect inline elements because inline elements flow with content on the page. You can set left and right margins/padding on an inline element but not top or bottom because it would disrupt the flow of content.
14.font-family property
15.The responsive design will reconfigure all design elements whether it's viewed on a desktop, laptop, tablet, or mobile phone. With adaptive design, different fixed layouts are created that adapt to the users screen size.
16. CSS Selectors are matched by browser engines from right to left. So they first find the children and then check their parents to see if they match the rest of the parts of the rule
17. content-box: The width & height of the element only include the content. In other words, the border, padding and margin aren't part of the width or height. This is the default value. border-box: The padding and border are included in the width and height.
18. In addition to RGB, you can use an RGB color value with an alpha channel (RGBA) - which specifies the opacity for a color. An RGBA color value is specified with: rgba(red, green, blue, alpha). The alpha parameter is a number between 0.0 (fully transparent) and 1.0 (fully opaque).
19. The CSS float property controls the positioning and formatting of content on the page. Its most common use is to wrap text around images. However, you can use the float property to wrap any inline elements around a defined HTML element, including lists, paragraphs, divs, spans, tables, iframes, and blockquotes.
20.The z-index property specifies the stack order of an element. An element with greater stack order is always in front of an element with a lower stack order.
21. Items display in a row (the flex-direction property's default is row ).
The items start from the start edge of the main axis.
The items do not stretch on the main dimension, but can shrink.
The items will stretch to fill the size of the cross axis.
The flex-basis property is set to auto.
22. cascading is the process of using an algorithm that defines how to combine property values originating from different sources.
23.To move the inner div container to the centre of the parent div we have to use the margin property of style attribute. We can adjust the space around any HTML element by this margin property just by providing desired values to it.
24. All, Print, Screen, Speech.
25. The CSS Grid Layout Module offers a grid-based layout system, with rows and columns, making it easier to design web pages without having to use floats and positioning.
26.via the CSS property display , e.g. display: none;
via the CSS property visibility , e.g. visibility: hidden;
via the HTML5 attribute hidden , e.g. <span hidden>   
27. The :root CSS pseudo-class matches the root element of a tree representing the document. In HTML, :root represents the <html> element and is identical to the selector html, except that its specificity is higher.
28.  The basic difference between CSS Grid Layout and CSS Flexbox Layout is that flexbox was designed for layout in one dimension - either a row or a column. Grid was designed for two-dimensional layout - rows, and columns at the same time.
29. The !important rule in CSS is used to add more importance to a property/value than normal.In fact, if you use the !important rule, it will override ALL previous styling rules for that specific property on that element!.
30. In CSS, a margin is the space around an element's border, while padding is the space between an element's border and the element's content. Put another way, the margin property controls the space outside an element, and the padding property controls the space inside an element. 